source/guides/installfest40/getting_started.md, before:

---
github_url: https://github.com/reinteractive-open/installfest_guides/tree/master/source/guides/installfest40/getting_started.md
---

# Getting Started
## Preparation

#### Prerequisites

1. A working version of Rails 4.0. To determine if you've got a working version of Rails 4.0, type `rails -v` into your command prompt.
2. Sublime Text 2. If you prefer another text editor like vim, emacs or TextMate that's fine too but these instructions will specifically mention Sublime.

#### Next steps

Open two command prompts. One of these you'll use to run your local Rails
server and the other you'll use for entering all other commands.  Whenever you
need to start or restart the rails server use one of these prompts, for all
other command line work you can use the other.


## Setting up our Rails app

`rails new quick_blog -T`

Entering this command into your command prompt will cause Rails to generate a
new application and begin to install dependencies for your application. This
process may take a few minutes, so you should let it continue. Once it has
finished type:

`cd quick_blog`

To change into the folder where your application is stored. If you look at the
contents of this folder you'll see:

![The default Rails application structure](/images/guides/default_rails_structure.png)

This is the standard structure of a new Rails application. Once you learn this
structure it makes working with Rails easier since everything is in a standard
place. Next we'll run this fresh application to check that our Rails install is
working properly. Type:

`rails server`

Open your web-browser and head to:
[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) you should see something that
looks like:

![Rails default homepage](/images/guides/rails_welcome.jpg)

Now that you've created the Rails application you should open this folder using
Sublime. Open up Sublime, then open the quick_blog folder that was just
generated.

## Creating basic functionality

Now we're ready to get started building an actual blog. In your command prompt
press `Ctrl-c` to stop the Rails server, or open a new command prompt and
navigate to your Rails application folder. Then you can use a Rails generator
to build some code for you:

`rails g scaffold Post title body:text`

You'll be presented with something that looks like:

![Scaffolding posts](/images/guides/scaffolding_posts.png)

An important file that was generated was the migration file:
`db/migrate/20140528075017_create_posts.rb` Note that as this file name starts
with a unique id includeding the date and time yours will have a different set
of numbers.

```ruby
class CreatePosts < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def change
    create_table :posts do |t|
      t.string :title
      t.text :body

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```

This file is Ruby code that Rails uses to manage how your data is stored in the
database. You can see that this code is to create a table called `Posts` and to
create two columns in this table, a title column and a body column.  Finally we
need to instruct Rails to apply this to our database. Type:

`rake db:migrate`

Once this command has run you can start up your Rails server again with `rails
server` and then navigate to
[http://localhost:3000/posts](http://localhost:3000/posts) to see the changes
you've made to your application.

![Empty posts list](/images/guides/empty_posts_list.png)

From here you can play around with your application. Go ahead and create a new
blog post.

![Creating a new post](/images/guides/filling_out_posts_form.png)

You'll notice you can create new posts, edit or delete them. We're going to add
in some functionality to our new Rails app which enforces a rule that every
post must have a title. Open `app/models/post.rb` and add the line:

```ruby
validates_presence_of :body, :title
```

To the code. Your `post.rb` file should look like:

```ruby
class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates_presence_of :body, :title
end
```

We can check that this works by editing our blog post, deleting the title and
clicking `Update Post`. You'll get an error informing you that you've just
attempted to break the rule you just inserted:

![Rails validation error](/images/guides/validation_errors.png)

## Making things prettier

Right now our [show post page](http://localhost:3000/posts/1) isn't looking
very good. We'll open `app/views/posts/show.html.erb` and make it look like the
following:

```erb
 <p id="notice"><%= notice %></p>

 <h2><%= link_to_unless_current @post.title, @post %></h2>
 <%= simple_format @post.body %>

 <%= link_to 'Edit', edit_post_path(@post) %> |
 <%= link_to 'Back', posts_path %>
```

At this point you can refresh the show post page in your browser to see the
changes you've made.

We'll also want to make our blog listing prettier too, we'll use a Rails
partial (a partial is simply a reusuable block of HTML code. It's part of a web
    page) to achieve this. We want our listing and the individual blog pages to
look the same so first we'll create a file: `app/views/posts/_post.html.erb`
The underscore in front of the filename here tells Rails that this is a
partial. We'll take

```erb
 <h2><%= link_to_unless_current @post.title, @post %></h2>
 <%= simple_format @post.body %>
```

Out of `app/views/posts/show.html.erb` and put it in our `_post.html.erb` file.
After that, change all three mentions of `@post` to be `post` instead. This
means your `_post.html.erb` file will be:

```erb
 <h2><%= link_to_unless_current post.title, post %></h2>
 <%= simple_format post.body %>
```

In our `show.html.erb` file we want to insert the code to put our partial into
our show view. Insert the code: `<%= render partial: @post %>` to make it
look like:


```erb
 <p id="notice"><%= notice %></p>

 <%= render partial: @post %>

 <%= link_to 'Edit', edit_post_path(@post) %> |
 <%= link_to 'Back', posts_path %>
```

Save all these files and refresh [the show posts
page](http://localhost:3000/posts/1). This is to check that you haven't broken
anything with those changes.

Our index page still hasn't changed though so we're going to open the
`index.html.erb` file up and remove the table in there and replace it with the
partial again so we're re-using that code:

```erb
 <h1>Listing posts</h1>

 <%= render partial: @posts %>

 <%= link_to 'New Post', new_post_path %>
```


## Access control

One huge problem with our blog is that anyone can create, edit and delete blog
posts. Let's fix that. We'll use HTTP Basic authenticate to put a password on
actions we don't want everyone accessing. Open
`app/controllers/posts_controller.rb` and add `before_filter :authenticate,
  except: [ :index, :show ]` on line 2 just below the class declaration. At the
  bottom of your file put the following code:

```ruby
  private
  def authenticate
    authenticate_or_request_with_http_basic do |name, password|
      name == "admin" && password == "secret"
    end
  end
```

Overall your `posts_controller.rb` should have the following code at the top
and the bottom of the file. Note that all the methods are excluded here for
brevity.

```ruby
class PostsController < ApplicationController
  before_filter :authenticate, except: [ :index, :show ]
  before_action :set_post, only: [:show, :edit, :update, :destroy]

  ...
  # all your actions go in here
  ...

  private

  ...
  # there should be post_params and set_post methods in here.
  ...

  def authenticate
    authenticate_or_request_with_http_basic do |name, password|
      name == "admin" && password == "secret"
    end
  end
end
```

With that code in place you can try to [add a new
post](http://localhost:3000/posts/new) and you'll be prompted to enter a
username and password.

![image](/images/guides/authentication_required.png)

## Adding comments
#### Creating a database model and routing

No blog is complete without comments. Let's add them in. On our command prompt,
   shut down your rails server by hitting `Ctrl-C` and then type in:

`rails generate resource Comment post:references body:text`

Then you'll want to update your database here to reflect the schema change
you've just made:

`rake db:migrate`

After this you'll need to inform Rails that your Posts will potentially have
many Comments. Open `app/models/post.rb` and add the line: `has_many :comments`
somewhere inside the class. This should look like:

```ruby
class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :comments

  validates_presence_of :body, :title
end
```

The back-end for your comments is almost complete, we only need to configure
the url that is used to create your comments. Since comments belong to a post
we'll make the URL reflect this. Right now you can see all the configured URLs
by typing `rake routes` in your command prompt. If you do this now you'll get
something like the following:

```ruby
    comments GET    /comments(.:format)          comments#index
             POST   /comments(.:format)          comments#create
 new_comment GET    /comments/new(.:format)      comments#new
edit_comment GET    /comments/:id/edit(.:format) comments#edit
     comment GET    /comments/:id(.:format)      comments#show
             PUT    /comments/:id(.:format)      comments#update
             DELETE /comments/:id(.:format)      comments#destroy
       posts GET    /posts(.:format)             posts#index
             POST   /posts(.:format)             posts#create
    new_post GET    /posts/new(.:format)         posts#new
   edit_post GET    /posts/:id/edit(.:format)    posts#edit
        post GET    /posts/:id(.:format)         posts#show
             PUT    /posts/:id(.:format)         posts#update
             DELETE /posts/:id(.:format)         posts#destroy
```

Your URLs (or routes) are configured in all Rails applications in the file
`config/routes.rb`, open it now and remove the line `resources :comments`.
Re-run `rake routes` and you'll notice that all the URLs for comments have
disappeared. Update your `routes.rb` file to look like the following:

```ruby
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  resources :posts do
    resources :comments, only: [:create]
  end

  # root 'welcome#index'
end
```

Because comments will be visible from the show Post page along with the form
for creating them, we don't need to have URLs for displaying comment listings,
    or individual comments. When you rerun `rake routes` now you'll see the
    following line:

```ruby
post_comments POST   /posts/:post_id/comments(.:format) comments#create
```

Before we're finished with the backend for our commenting system we need to
write the action that will create our comments. For more information on actions
please read the Rails Guide on
[ActionController](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html).

Open `app/controllers/comments_controller.rb` and make your code look like the
following:

```ruby
class CommentsController < ApplicationController
  def create
    @post = Post.find(params[:post_id])
    @comment = @post.comments.create!(comment_params)
    redirect_to @post
  end

  private

  def comment_params
    params.require(:comment).permit(:body)
  end
end
```

The big difference here from the Rails 3 guide is that we use a method called
`comment_params` to only choose the parameters from the form that we want to
save to the model. You can read more about this at:
[https://github.com/rails/strong_parameters](https://github.com/rails/strong_parameters)

#### Putting comments into your HTML view

You've created the database model for your comments, migrated your database,
  informed Rails of the relationship between comments and posts, configured a
  URL that lets you create your comments and created the controller action that
  will create the comments. Now you need to display any comments that have been
  submitted for a post, and allow users to submit comments. Open
  `app/views/posts/show.html.erb` and make it look like:

```erb
 <p id="notice"><%= notice %></p>

 <%= render partial: @post %>

 <%= link_to 'Edit', edit_post_path(@post) %> |
 <%= link_to 'Back', posts_path %>

 <h2>Comments</h2>
 <div id="comments">
  <%= render partial: @post.comments %>
 </div>
```

You'll now need to create a file called `app/views/comments/_comment.html.erb`
with the following contents:

```erb
<%= div_for comment do %>
  <p>
    <strong>
      Posted <%= time_ago_in_words(comment.created_at) %> ago
    </strong>
    <br/>
    <%= comment.body %>
  </p>
<% end %>
```

Back in `app/views/posts/show.html.erb` you need to add in the form for
submitting a comment so add the following code to the bottom of that file.

```erb
<%= form_for [@post, Comment.new] do |f| %>
  <p>
    <%= f.label :body, "New comment" %><br/>
    <%= f.text_area :body %>
  </p>
  <p><%= f.submit "Add comment" %></p>
<% end %>
```

Comments are now working (if they aren't make sure you restart your `rails
    server`) so go ahead and browse to [your
post](http://localhost:3000/posts/1) and add a new comment.

## Publishing your Blog on the internet

Heroku is a fantastically simple service that can be used to host Ruby on Rails
applications. You'll be able to host your blog on Heroku on their free-tier but
first you'll need a Heroku account. Head to
[https://www.heroku.com/](https://www.heroku.com/), click Sign Up and create an
account. The starter documentation for Heroku is available at:
[https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quickstart](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quickstart).
Once you've got an account you'll need to download the toolbelt from
[https://toolbelt.heroku.com/](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) and set it up on
your computer.

### About databases

Up until this point we've been using SQLite as our database, but unfortunately
Heroku doesn't support the use of SQLite. So we're going to be running Postgres
instead. Setting this up is easy. You'll need to open the `Gemfile` and make
your `Gemfile` look like:

```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'rails', '~> 4.0.5'

gem 'sqlite3', group: [:development, :test]
gem 'pg', group: :production

gem 'sass-rails', '~> 4.0.3'
gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.3.0'
gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 4.0.0'

gem 'jquery-rails'
gem 'turbolinks'
gem 'jbuilder', '~> 2.0'
gem 'sdoc', '~> 0.4.0',          group: :doc
gem 'spring',        group: :development
```

After this, run the command `bundle install --without=production` on your
command line.

### Regarding version control

Heroku also requires that every application is placed under version control
before it is deployed. Simply run the following commands on the command prompt
to make sure your application is properly controlled:

```ruby
git init
git add .
git commit -m "initial blog commit"
```

### Deploying your application

In the same command prompt you should be ready to deploy your application.
First we create our Heroku application:

`heroku create`

Now we push our application to Heroku:

`git push heroku master`

Finally we set up our database:

`heroku run:detached rake db:setup`

This setup of the database should only need to take place the first time you
deploy to heroku. Afterwards you may need to run `db:migrate` instead.  The
`detached` option runs the command in the background. It is there only to
ensure the process will go through, even on faulty Internet connection. You can
use `heroku logs` to view the output of the command.

Finally you should be able to browse to the URL that Heroku has given you and
check to see that your blog has been deployed properly!

Welcome to Ruby on Rails. If you're this far along you should definitely [head
on over to Part 2](/guides/installfest40/finishing_a_basic_blog) which goes
more in depth with Rails and begins to add more features to the blogging
engine.

Commit message:

Add rails_12factor to Rails 4 "Getting Started"

source/guides/installfest40/getting_started.md, after:

---
github_url: https://github.com/reinteractive-open/installfest_guides/tree/master/source/guides/installfest40/getting_started.md
---

# Getting Started
## Preparation

#### Prerequisites

1. A working version of Rails 4.0. To determine if you've got a working version of Rails 4.0, type `rails -v` into your command prompt.
2. Sublime Text 2. If you prefer another text editor like vim, emacs or TextMate that's fine too but these instructions will specifically mention Sublime.

#### Next steps

Open two command prompts. One of these you'll use to run your local Rails
server and the other you'll use for entering all other commands.  Whenever you
need to start or restart the rails server use one of these prompts, for all
other command line work you can use the other.


## Setting up our Rails app

`rails new quick_blog -T`

Entering this command into your command prompt will cause Rails to generate a
new application and begin to install dependencies for your application. This
process may take a few minutes, so you should let it continue. Once it has
finished type:

`cd quick_blog`

To change into the folder where your application is stored. If you look at the
contents of this folder you'll see:

![The default Rails application structure](/images/guides/default_rails_structure.png)

This is the standard structure of a new Rails application. Once you learn this
structure it makes working with Rails easier since everything is in a standard
place. Next we'll run this fresh application to check that our Rails install is
working properly. Type:

`rails server`

Open your web-browser and head to:
[http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) you should see something that
looks like:

![Rails default homepage](/images/guides/rails_welcome.jpg)

Now that you've created the Rails application you should open this folder using
Sublime. Open up Sublime, then open the quick_blog folder that was just
generated.

## Creating basic functionality

Now we're ready to get started building an actual blog. In your command prompt
press `Ctrl-c` to stop the Rails server, or open a new command prompt and
navigate to your Rails application folder. Then you can use a Rails generator
to build some code for you:

`rails g scaffold Post title body:text`

You'll be presented with something that looks like:

![Scaffolding posts](/images/guides/scaffolding_posts.png)

An important file that was generated was the migration file:
`db/migrate/20140528075017_create_posts.rb` Note that as this file name starts
with a unique id includeding the date and time yours will have a different set
of numbers.

```ruby
class CreatePosts < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def change
    create_table :posts do |t|
      t.string :title
      t.text :body

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```

This file is Ruby code that Rails uses to manage how your data is stored in the
database. You can see that this code is to create a table called `Posts` and to
create two columns in this table, a title column and a body column.  Finally we
need to instruct Rails to apply this to our database. Type:

`rake db:migrate`

Once this command has run you can start up your Rails server again with `rails
server` and then navigate to
[http://localhost:3000/posts](http://localhost:3000/posts) to see the changes
you've made to your application.

![Empty posts list](/images/guides/empty_posts_list.png)

From here you can play around with your application. Go ahead and create a new
blog post.

![Creating a new post](/images/guides/filling_out_posts_form.png)

You'll notice you can create new posts, edit or delete them. We're going to add
in some functionality to our new Rails app which enforces a rule that every
post must have a title. Open `app/models/post.rb` and add the line:

```ruby
validates_presence_of :body, :title
```

To the code. Your `post.rb` file should look like:

```ruby
class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates_presence_of :body, :title
end
```

We can check that this works by editing our blog post, deleting the title and
clicking `Update Post`. You'll get an error informing you that you've just
attempted to break the rule you just inserted:

![Rails validation error](/images/guides/validation_errors.png)

## Making things prettier

Right now our [show post page](http://localhost:3000/posts/1) isn't looking
very good. We'll open `app/views/posts/show.html.erb` and make it look like the
following:

```erb
 <p id="notice"><%= notice %></p>

 <h2><%= link_to_unless_current @post.title, @post %></h2>
 <%= simple_format @post.body %>

 <%= link_to 'Edit', edit_post_path(@post) %> |
 <%= link_to 'Back', posts_path %>
```

At this point you can refresh the show post page in your browser to see the
changes you've made.

We'll also want to make our blog listing prettier too, we'll use a Rails
partial (a partial is simply a reusuable block of HTML code. It's part of a web
    page) to achieve this. We want our listing and the individual blog pages to
look the same so first we'll create a file: `app/views/posts/_post.html.erb`
The underscore in front of the filename here tells Rails that this is a
partial. We'll take

```erb
 <h2><%= link_to_unless_current @post.title, @post %></h2>
 <%= simple_format @post.body %>
```

Out of `app/views/posts/show.html.erb` and put it in our `_post.html.erb` file.
After that, change all three mentions of `@post` to be `post` instead. This
means your `_post.html.erb` file will be:

```erb
 <h2><%= link_to_unless_current post.title, post %></h2>
 <%= simple_format post.body %>
```

In our `show.html.erb` file we want to insert the code to put our partial into
our show view. Insert the code: `<%= render partial: @post %>` to make it
look like:


```erb
 <p id="notice"><%= notice %></p>

 <%= render partial: @post %>

 <%= link_to 'Edit', edit_post_path(@post) %> |
 <%= link_to 'Back', posts_path %>
```

Save all these files and refresh [the show posts
page](http://localhost:3000/posts/1). This is to check that you haven't broken
anything with those changes.

Our index page still hasn't changed though so we're going to open the
`index.html.erb` file up and remove the table in there and replace it with the
partial again so we're re-using that code:

```erb
 <h1>Listing posts</h1>

 <%= render partial: @posts %>

 <%= link_to 'New Post', new_post_path %>
```


## Access control

One huge problem with our blog is that anyone can create, edit and delete blog
posts. Let's fix that. We'll use HTTP Basic authenticate to put a password on
actions we don't want everyone accessing. Open
`app/controllers/posts_controller.rb` and add `before_filter :authenticate,
  except: [ :index, :show ]` on line 2 just below the class declaration. At the
  bottom of your file put the following code:

```ruby
  private
  def authenticate
    authenticate_or_request_with_http_basic do |name, password|
      name == "admin" && password == "secret"
    end
  end
```

Overall your `posts_controller.rb` should have the following code at the top
and the bottom of the file. Note that all the methods are excluded here for
brevity.

```ruby
class PostsController < ApplicationController
  before_filter :authenticate, except: [ :index, :show ]
  before_action :set_post, only: [:show, :edit, :update, :destroy]

  ...
  # all your actions go in here
  ...

  private

  ...
  # there should be post_params and set_post methods in here.
  ...

  def authenticate
    authenticate_or_request_with_http_basic do |name, password|
      name == "admin" && password == "secret"
    end
  end
end
```

With that code in place you can try to [add a new
post](http://localhost:3000/posts/new) and you'll be prompted to enter a
username and password.

![image](/images/guides/authentication_required.png)

## Adding comments
#### Creating a database model and routing

No blog is complete without comments. Let's add them in. On our command prompt,
   shut down your rails server by hitting `Ctrl-C` and then type in:

`rails generate resource Comment post:references body:text`

Then you'll want to update your database here to reflect the schema change
you've just made:

`rake db:migrate`

After this you'll need to inform Rails that your Posts will potentially have
many Comments. Open `app/models/post.rb` and add the line: `has_many :comments`
somewhere inside the class. This should look like:

```ruby
class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :comments

  validates_presence_of :body, :title
end
```

The back-end for your comments is almost complete, we only need to configure
the url that is used to create your comments. Since comments belong to a post
we'll make the URL reflect this. Right now you can see all the configured URLs
by typing `rake routes` in your command prompt. If you do this now you'll get
something like the following:

```ruby
    comments GET    /comments(.:format)          comments#index
             POST   /comments(.:format)          comments#create
 new_comment GET    /comments/new(.:format)      comments#new
edit_comment GET    /comments/:id/edit(.:format) comments#edit
     comment GET    /comments/:id(.:format)      comments#show
             PUT    /comments/:id(.:format)      comments#update
             DELETE /comments/:id(.:format)      comments#destroy
       posts GET    /posts(.:format)             posts#index
             POST   /posts(.:format)             posts#create
    new_post GET    /posts/new(.:format)         posts#new
   edit_post GET    /posts/:id/edit(.:format)    posts#edit
        post GET    /posts/:id(.:format)         posts#show
             PUT    /posts/:id(.:format)         posts#update
             DELETE /posts/:id(.:format)         posts#destroy
```

Your URLs (or routes) are configured in all Rails applications in the file
`config/routes.rb`, open it now and remove the line `resources :comments`.
Re-run `rake routes` and you'll notice that all the URLs for comments have
disappeared. Update your `routes.rb` file to look like the following:

```ruby
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  resources :posts do
    resources :comments, only: [:create]
  end

  # root 'welcome#index'
end
```

Because comments will be visible from the show Post page along with the form
for creating them, we don't need to have URLs for displaying comment listings,
    or individual comments. When you rerun `rake routes` now you'll see the
    following line:

```ruby
post_comments POST   /posts/:post_id/comments(.:format) comments#create
```

Before we're finished with the backend for our commenting system we need to
write the action that will create our comments. For more information on actions
please read the Rails Guide on
[ActionController](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html).

Open `app/controllers/comments_controller.rb` and make your code look like the
following:

```ruby
class CommentsController < ApplicationController
  def create
    @post = Post.find(params[:post_id])
    @comment = @post.comments.create!(comment_params)
    redirect_to @post
  end

  private

  def comment_params
    params.require(:comment).permit(:body)
  end
end
```

The big difference here from the Rails 3 guide is that we use a method called
`comment_params` to only choose the parameters from the form that we want to
save to the model. You can read more about this at:
[https://github.com/rails/strong_parameters](https://github.com/rails/strong_parameters)

#### Putting comments into your HTML view

You've created the database model for your comments, migrated your database,
  informed Rails of the relationship between comments and posts, configured a
  URL that lets you create your comments and created the controller action that
  will create the comments. Now you need to display any comments that have been
  submitted for a post, and allow users to submit comments. Open
  `app/views/posts/show.html.erb` and make it look like:

```erb
 <p id="notice"><%= notice %></p>

 <%= render partial: @post %>

 <%= link_to 'Edit', edit_post_path(@post) %> |
 <%= link_to 'Back', posts_path %>

 <h2>Comments</h2>
 <div id="comments">
  <%= render partial: @post.comments %>
 </div>
```

You'll now need to create a file called `app/views/comments/_comment.html.erb`
with the following contents:

```erb
<%= div_for comment do %>
  <p>
    <strong>
      Posted <%= time_ago_in_words(comment.created_at) %> ago
    </strong>
    <br/>
    <%= comment.body %>
  </p>
<% end %>
```

Back in `app/views/posts/show.html.erb` you need to add in the form for
submitting a comment so add the following code to the bottom of that file.

```erb
<%= form_for [@post, Comment.new] do |f| %>
  <p>
    <%= f.label :body, "New comment" %><br/>
    <%= f.text_area :body %>
  </p>
  <p><%= f.submit "Add comment" %></p>
<% end %>
```

Comments are now working (if they aren't make sure you restart your `rails
    server`) so go ahead and browse to [your
post](http://localhost:3000/posts/1) and add a new comment.

## Publishing your Blog on the internet

Heroku is a fantastically simple service that can be used to host Ruby on Rails
applications. You'll be able to host your blog on Heroku on their free-tier but
first you'll need a Heroku account. Head to
[https://www.heroku.com/](https://www.heroku.com/), click Sign Up and create an
account. The starter documentation for Heroku is available at:
[https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quickstart](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quickstart).
Once you've got an account you'll need to download the toolbelt from
[https://toolbelt.heroku.com/](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) and set it up on
your computer.

### Make the application work on Heroku

Up until this point we've been using SQLite as our database, but unfortunately
Heroku doesn't support the use of SQLite. So we're going to be running Postgres
instead.

We need to do some other things to make our application work on Heroku (it has
to follow the ["Twelve-Factor" rules](http://12factor.net/) – don't worry about
the details).

These changes are easy to make. You'll need to open the `Gemfile` and make
your `Gemfile` look like:

```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'rails', '~> 4.0.5'

gem 'sqlite3', group: [:development, :test]
gem 'pg', group: :production

gem 'sass-rails', '~> 4.0.3'
gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.3.0'
gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 4.0.0'

gem 'jquery-rails'
gem 'turbolinks'
gem 'jbuilder', '~> 2.0'
gem 'sdoc', '~> 0.4.0',          group: :doc
gem 'spring',        group: :development
gem 'rails_12factor', group: :production
```



After this, run the command `bundle install --without=production` on your
command line.

### Regarding version control

Heroku also requires that every application is placed under version control
before it is deployed. Simply run the following commands on the command prompt
to make sure your application is properly controlled:

```ruby
git init
git add .
git commit -m "initial blog commit"
```

### Deploying your application

In the same command prompt you should be ready to deploy your application.
First we create our Heroku application:

`heroku create`

Now we push our application to Heroku:

`git push heroku master`

Finally we set up our database:

`heroku run:detached rake db:setup`

This setup of the database should only need to take place the first time you
deploy to heroku. Afterwards you may need to run `db:migrate` instead.  The
`detached` option runs the command in the background. It is there only to
ensure the process will go through, even on faulty Internet connection. You can
use `heroku logs` to view the output of the command.

Finally you should be able to browse to the URL that Heroku has given you and
check to see that your blog has been deployed properly!

Welcome to Ruby on Rails. If you're this far along you should definitely [head
on over to Part 2](/guides/installfest40/finishing_a_basic_blog) which goes
more in depth with Rails and begins to add more features to the blogging
engine.
