source/guides/getting_started.md, before:

# Getting Started
## Preparation

#### Prerequisites

1. A working version of Rails which you can install using [Rails Installer](http://railsinstaller.org/) for Windows or Mac. Note: For Mac Mavericks users, please use [this alternative guide on getting started](/guides/installfest41/rails_on_mavericks).
2. Sublime Text 2. If you prefer another text editor like vim, emacs or TextMate that's fine too but these instructions will specifically mention Sublime.

#### Next steps

Once you've successfully installed Rails (either using the [Rails Installer](http://railsinstaller.org/), by yourself or using the [OSX Mavericks guide](/guides/installfest/rails_on_mavericks)) you're ready to start, but first we need to determine which version of Rails you're using. Open a command prompt and type:

```
rails -v
```

Depending on which version of Rails you've installed you should continue using the the correct guide:

* **For Rails version 3.2 continue on our [version 3.2 guide](/guides/installfest/getting_started)**
* **For Rails version 4.0 continue on our [version 4.0 guide](/guides/installfest40/getting_started)**
* **For Rails version 4.1 continue on our [version 4.1 guide](/guides/installfest41/getting_started)**

Commit message:

add hyperlink for Ubuntu GNU/Linux from gorails.com at Prerequisites

source/guides/getting_started.md, after:

# Getting Started
## Preparation

#### Prerequisites

1. A working version of Rails which you can install using [Rails Installer](http://railsinstaller.org/) for Windows or Mac. Note: For Mac Mavericks users, please use [this alternative guide on getting started](/guides/installfest41/rails_on_mavericks). For Ubuntu GNU/Linux users, you may refer to [gorails guide](https://gorails.com/setup/ubuntu/15.04).
2. Sublime Text 2. If you prefer another text editor like vim, emacs or TextMate that's fine too but these instructions will specifically mention Sublime.

#### Next steps

Once you've successfully installed Rails (either using the [Rails Installer](http://railsinstaller.org/), by yourself or using the [OSX Mavericks guide](/guides/installfest/rails_on_mavericks)) you're ready to start, but first we need to determine which version of Rails you're using. Open a command prompt and type:

```
rails -v
```

Depending on which version of Rails you've installed you should continue using the the correct guide:

* **For Rails version 3.2 continue on our [version 3.2 guide](/guides/installfest/getting_started)**
* **For Rails version 4.0 continue on our [version 4.0 guide](/guides/installfest40/getting_started)**
* **For Rails version 4.1 continue on our [version 4.1 guide](/guides/installfest41/getting_started)**
