source/guides/installfest/testing_the_blog.md, before:

---
github_url: https://github.com/reinteractive-open/installfest_guides/tree/master/source/guides/installfest/testing_the_blog.md
---

# Testing the Blog with RSpec
In the [previous article](/guides/installfest/getting_started) you built a simple blogging engine using Rails and published it up on [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com). If you haven't run through that post then you should do so now before starting this one. If you feel confident with Rails but want to learn more about testing you can find some instructions on getting the code set up properly below.

## Introduction to Automated Testing
One of the biggest advantages of Rails is the community focus on testing. The Ruby and Rails communities have put a great deal of effort into building first-class tools and methods for making sure our apps are as correct as possible. With tools like RSpec and Capybara, Ruby and Rails lead the way in developing easy to use and innovative tools to support widely embraced methods like Test Driven Development (TDD), Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and Continuous Integration (CI).

Let's dive into testing now.

### Setup
Add the gem `rspec-rails` to the development and test group in your `Gemfile` so it looks like this:
(Windows users, if you added it previously, don't forget to keep the coffee-script-source gem in the list)


```ruby
# Gemfile
source 'https://rubygems.org'

git_source(:github) do |repo_name|
  repo_name = "#{repo_name}/#{repo_name}" unless repo_name.include?("/")
  "https://github.com/#{repo_name}.git"
end

# Bundle edge Rails instead: gem 'rails', github: 'rails/rails'
gem 'rails', '~> 5.1.0'
# Use sqlite3 as the database for Active Record
gem 'sqlite3', group: [:development, :test]
gem 'pg', group: :production
# Use Puma as the app server
gem 'puma', '~> 3.7'
# Use SCSS for stylesheets
gem 'sass-rails', '~> 5.0'
# Use Uglifier as compressor for JavaScript assets
gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.3.0'
# See https://github.com/rails/execjs#readme for more supported runtimes
# gem 'therubyracer', platforms: :ruby

# Use CoffeeScript for .coffee assets and views
gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 4.2'
# Turbolinks makes navigating your web application faster. Read more: https://github.com/turbolinks/turbolinks
gem 'turbolinks', '~> 5'
# Build JSON APIs with ease. Read more: https://github.com/rails/jbuilder
gem 'jbuilder', '~> 2.5'
# Use Redis adapter to run Action Cable in production
# gem 'redis', '~> 3.0'
# Use ActiveModel has_secure_password
# gem 'bcrypt', '~> 3.1.7'

gem 'record_tag_helper', '~> 1.0'

# Use Capistrano for deployment
# gem 'capistrano-rails', group: :development

group :development, :test do
  # Call 'byebug' anywhere in the code to stop execution and get a debugger console
  gem 'byebug', platforms: [:mri, :mingw, :x64_mingw]
  gem 'rspec-rails'
end

group :development do
  # Access an IRB console on exception pages or by using <%= console %> anywhere in the code.
  gem 'web-console', '>= 3.3.0'
  gem 'listen', '>= 3.0.5', '< 3.2'
  # Spring speeds up development by keeping your application running in the background. Read more: https://github.com/rails/spring
  gem 'spring'
  gem 'spring-watcher-listen', '~> 2.0.0'
end

# Windows does not include zoneinfo files, so bundle the tzinfo-data gem
gem 'tzinfo-data', platforms: [:mingw, :mswin, :x64_mingw, :jruby]
```

Save the file and run `bundle install --without=production`

This will add Rspec and RSpec Rails to our Rails application. RSpec is a commonly used TDD (and BDD) testing tool which provides a special testing language (powered by Ruby) for testing existing code and for informing developers about the structure and functionality of yet to be written code!

To complete the installation run:

`rails generate rspec:install`

`rails generate rspec:model post`

`rails g rspec:model comment`

`rails g` is the short version of this command, and can be used anytime you would use `rails generate`

Normally if you generate a Rails entity like a controller or model then this will automatically create a spec for you, but since we've already got a bunch of code that isn't tested we have to manually generate a spec to test our comment model.

We can now run the specs we've generated. Run `rails spec`. Alternatively use the `rspec` command. You can run individual specs as follows:

`rspec spec/models/post_spec.rb`

Or all the model specs with: `rspec spec/models`. With this last example you're providing a directory for `rspec` to run, it simply runs every spec it can find in that folder and all sub-folders.

### Testing the Post

Our Post model seems fairly empty but there is already some business logic in there that we can test. Rails validations are considered business logic and are easy to test. Open `spec/models/post_spec.rb` and update it so that it looks like:

```ruby
# spec/models/post_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

RSpec.describe Post, type: :model do
  it 'should validate presence of title' do
    post = Post.new
    post.valid?
    expect(post.errors.messages[:title]).to include "can't be blank"
  end
end
```

Once you've saved it, run `rspec spec/models/post_spec.rb`. The test should pass with `1 example, 0 failures`. But we're not done yet. Over the lifetime of our application we'll probably be adding lots of extra functionality and our spec is very flat. We should organise it a litte better and structure it in such a way which also allows us to reuse code:

```ruby
# spec/models/post_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

RSpec.describe Post, type: :model do
  describe 'validations' do
    subject(:post) { Post.new } # sets the subject of this describe block
    before { post.valid? }      # runs a precondition for the test/s

    [:title, :body].each do |attribute|
      it "should validate presence of #{attribute}" do
        expect(post.errors[attribute].size).to be >= 1
        expect(post.errors.messages[attribute]).to include "can't be blank"
      end
    end
  end
end
```

What we're doing here is splitting up the test into a "validations" section and then declaring the subject of the test. The before block will invoke some common code to be run for each test and then each test just checks that there is an error on the model, and that the error is the expected error.

RSpec is a tool that provides a nice Domain Specific Language (DSL) to write specs. The important documentation to read is for [expectations and matchers](http://rubydoc.info/gems/rspec-expectations/frames), but for the purposes of this project we'll be providing and explaining most of the test code for you.

Since we're writing a fully functional spec for code that is already written, we'll need to make sure our test actually works by intentionally "breaking" some of our code. Open `app/models/post.rb` and comment out Line 6 so your Post model looks like:

```ruby
# app/models/post.rb
class Post < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :comments, dependent: :destroy

  # validates :body, :title, presence: true
end
```

Once you've saved the file, you can rerun the spec with `rspec spec/models/post_spec.rb`. You should receive `2 examples, 2 failures` and the error messages will be printed in your terminal. Be careful to read the error messages closely. When you're done uncomment Line 6 in `app/models/post.rb` save the file and rerun the spec to ensure that everything is passing correctly.

We'll also need to write a unit test for our comment model. Open `spec/models/comment_spec.rb` and update it to ensure that a comment will always belong to a post, and the comment will always have a body. The code to do this looks like:

```ruby
# spec/models/comment_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

RSpec.describe Comment, type: :model do
  describe 'validations' do
    subject(:comment) { Comment.new }
    before { comment.valid? }

    it 'should validate presence of post' do
      expect(comment.errors[:post].size).to be >= 1
      expect(comment.errors.messages[:post]).to include "must exist"
    end

    it 'should validate presence of body' do
      expect(comment.errors[:body].size).to be >= 1
      expect(comment.errors.messages[:body]).to include "can't be blank"
    end
  end
end
```

When you run `rspec spec/models/comment_spec.rb` you'll receive:

```sh
Failures:

Failures:

  1) Comment validations should validate presence of body
     Failure/Error: expect(comment.errors[:body].size).to be >= 1
     
       expected: >= 1
            got:    0
     # ./spec/models/comment_spec.rb:10:in `block (3 levels) in <top (required)>'

Finished in 0.04008 seconds (files took 1.4 seconds to load)
2 examples, 1 failure
```

If you open `app/models/comment.rb` you'll notice that there aren't any validations on our comment model. If you add `validates :body, presence: true` into the class so that it looks like:

```ruby
# app/models/comment.rb
class Comment < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :post

  validates :body, presence: true
end
```

and re-run your spec you'll see the test pass and "go green".

Congratulations, you've just TDD'd your first piece of application logic! One of the amazing things about working with Rails there's a very quick feedback loop between writing a failing test, making it pass and then suddenly having a complete functional feature in your application.

At this stage we've completed a small block of work, tests are passing (which you can check by running the `spec` command) so we should commit our work with:
`git add .` and `git commit -m "Added Rspec and first model specs"`

We're not done with our tests though.

### Acceptance tests

Rails fully supports the concept of an acceptance test, which is a full-stack automated test that behaves exactly like someone opening a browser and clicking around your site. We'll be using [Capybara](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara) primarily with [RackTest](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara#racktest).

#### Setting up Capybara

As you probably expect by now we'll be adding a new gem to our `Gemfile`. Open the `Gemfile` and add the following lines to the bottom:

```ruby
group :test do
  gem 'capybara'
end
```

Then save the file and run `bundle install --without=production` to install the new gems. We only need Capybara for our tests, so we're creating a section specifically to ensure that Capybara is only loaded when we run our tests.

Next open `spec/rails_helper.rb` (which was created when you installed spec) and add the following lines.

```ruby
require 'capybara/rails'
require 'capybara/rspec'
```

(Don't forget to save your file.)

Your spec file should now look like this:

```ruby
# spec/rails_helper.rb
# This file is copied to spec/ when you run 'rails generate rspec:install'
ENV['RAILS_ENV'] ||= 'test'
require File.expand_path('../../config/environment', __FILE__)
# Prevent database truncation if the environment is production
abort("The Rails environment is running in production mode!") if Rails.env.production?
require 'spec_helper'
require 'rspec/rails'
# Add additional requires below this line. Rails is not loaded until this point!
require 'capybara/rails'
require 'capybara/rspec'

# Requires supporting ruby files with custom matchers and macros, etc, in
# spec/support/ and its subdirectories. Files matching `spec/**/*_spec.rb` are
# run as spec files by default. This means that files in spec/support that end
# in _spec.rb will both be required and run as specs, causing the specs to be
# run twice. It is recommended that you do not name files matching this glob to
# end with _spec.rb. You can configure this pattern with the --pattern
# option on the command line or in ~/.rspec, .rspec or `.rspec-local`.
#
# The following line is provided for convenience purposes. It has the downside
# of increasing the boot-up time by auto-requiring all files in the support
# directory. Alternatively, in the individual `*_spec.rb` files, manually
# require only the support files necessary.
#
# Dir[Rails.root.join('spec/support/**/*.rb')].each { |f| require f }

# Checks for pending migration and applies them before tests are run.
# If you are not using ActiveRecord, you can remove this line.
ActiveRecord::Migration.maintain_test_schema!

RSpec.configure do |config|
  # Remove this line if you're not using ActiveRecord or ActiveRecord fixtures
  config.fixture_path = "#{::Rails.root}/spec/fixtures"

  # If you're not using ActiveRecord, or you'd prefer not to run each of your
  # examples within a transaction, remove the following line or assign false
  # instead of true.
  config.use_transactional_fixtures = true

  # RSpec Rails can automatically mix in different behaviours to your tests
  # based on their file location, for example enabling you to call `get` and
  # `post` in specs under `spec/controllers`.
  #
  # You can disable this behaviour by removing the line below, and instead
  # explicitly tag your specs with their type, e.g.:
  #
  #     RSpec.describe UsersController, :type => :controller do
  #       # ...
  #     end
  #
  # The different available types are documented in the features, such as in
  # https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/docs
  config.infer_spec_type_from_file_location!

  # Filter lines from Rails gems in backtraces.
  config.filter_rails_from_backtrace!
  # arbitrary gems may also be filtered via:
  # config.filter_gems_from_backtrace("gem name")
end
```

Next we'll create our first acceptance test.

#### The first acceptance test

Create a folder called `spec/features` then create a file `spec/features/reading_blog_spec.rb` with the following contents:

```ruby
# spec/features/reading_blog_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

feature 'Reading the Blog' do
  background do
    @post = Post.create(title: 'Awesome Blog Post', body: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet')
    Post.create(title: 'Another Awesome Post', body: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet')
  end

  scenario 'Reading the blog index' do
    visit root_path

    expect(page).to have_content 'Awesome Blog Post'
    expect(page).to have_content 'Another Awesome Post'
  end

  scenario 'Reading an individual blog' do
    visit root_path
    click_link 'Awesome Blog Post'

    expect(current_path).to eq post_path(@post)
  end
end
```

Save this file and run it with: `rspec spec/features`. You should get `2 examples, 0 failures`. But once again there's a problem. We've written a test which passes immediately, we should make it fail to check that the test is actually checking what we want it to check. We'll open `app/views/posts/_post.html.erb` and alter the Post titles as follows:

```erb
<h2><%= link_to_unless_current 'Blog Post', post %></h2>
<%= simple_format post.body %>
```

(Don't forget to save your file.)

Now when you rerun the spec (`rspec spec/features`) you'll receive two errors:

```sh
Failure/Error: expect(page).to have_content 'Awesome Blog Post'
  expected to find text "Awesome Blog Post"

Failure/Error: click_link 'Awesome Blog Post'
     Capybara::ElementNotFound:
       Unable to find link "Awesome Blog Post"
```

Undo your changes to `app/views/posts/_post.html.erb` so that it once again looks like:

```erb
<h2><%= link_to_unless_current post.title, post %></h2>
<%= simple_format post.body %>
```

Save your changes and rerun your spec to make sure everything is okay.

### Writing more Acceptance Tests

Acceptance tests are really powerful since they are a high level description of how your application should function. By writing acceptance tests it's entirely possible to build an entire user-facing feature without opening your web-browser! But more importantly, it gives you a high level of confidence that a feature will work, and won't inadvertantly break if you make changes elsewhere.

We're going to make more acceptance tests now.

Create a file: `spec/features/post_comments_spec.rb` with the contents:

```ruby
# spec/features/post_comments_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

feature 'Posting Comments' do
  background do
    @post = Post.create(title: 'Awesome Blog Post', body: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet')
  end

  # Note this scenario doesn't test the AJAX comment posting.
  scenario 'Posting a comment' do
    visit post_path(@post)

    comment = 'This post is just filler text. Ripped off!'

    fill_in 'comment_body', with: comment
    click_button 'Add comment'

    expect(page).to have_content comment
  end
end
```

Save that, then create a file: `spec/features/managing_posts_spec.rb` with the contents:

```ruby
# spec/features/managing_posts_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

feature 'Managing blog posts' do
  scenario 'Guests cannot create posts' do
    visit root_path
    click_link 'New Post'

    expect(page).to have_content 'Access denied'
  end

  scenario 'Posting a new blog' do
    visit root_path

    page.driver.browser.authorize 'admin', 'secret'
    click_link 'New Post'

    expect(page).to have_content 'New Post'

    fill_in 'Title', with: 'I love cheese'
    fill_in 'Body', with: "It's pretty amazing, don't you think?"

    click_button 'Create Post'
    expect(page).to have_content 'I love cheese'
  end

  context 'with an existing blog post' do
    background do
      @post = Post.create(title: 'Awesome Blog Post', body: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet')
    end

    scenario 'Editing an existing blog' do
      visit post_path(@post)

      page.driver.browser.authorize 'admin', 'secret'
      click_link 'Edit'

      fill_in 'Title', with: 'Not really Awesome Blog Post'
      click_button 'Update Post'

      expect(page).to have_content 'Not really Awesome Blog Post'
    end
  end
end
```

Save that file. Now let's run all of our acceptance/feature specs. Open your terminal and run: `rspec spec/features`. If everything has worked you'll get something like:

```sh
......

Finished in 0.26705 seconds
10 examples, 0 failures
```

### Cleaning up

We've now tested our application with some unit tests of our models, and using acceptance tests. We've increased our confidence in our existing code and we're ready to move on to adding extra features to our blog. Before we do that though we should run all our tests and commit our code.

To run all your tests either run `rake spec` or `rspec`. Rake is a utility command which provides a common interface for interacting with your application. the `spec` task simply runs `rspec` internally. Once your tests have finished running (and they all pass!) you should commit your code. Run:

```sh
git add .
git commit -m "Adding capybara and tests for existing functionality"
```

## Next Steps

Up next we're going to go more in depth with Rails and begin to add more features to the blogging engine. Head on over to [Part 3: Finishing a Basic Blog](/guides/installfest/finishing_a_basic_blog) to get started.

If you're interested in more training from reinteractive or just want to give us some feedback on this you can leave a comment below or:

#### Sign up to our Training mailing list.

Just put your email below and we'll let you know if we have anything more for you. We hate spam probably more than you do so you'll only be contacted by us and can unsubscribe at any time:

<form action="http://reinteractive.us4.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=b6281a8c8660a40e246de37d1&amp;id=e8c8222e0b" method="post" class="subscribe-form" name="mc-embedded-subscribe-form" target="_blank" novalidate="">
            <input type="email" value="" name="EMAIL" class="email" id="mce-EMAIL" placeholder="email address" required="">
            <input type="submit" value="Subscribe" name="subscribe" id="mc-embedded-subscribe" class="button">
</form>

#### Do Development Hub

Sign up for [DevelopmentHub](http://reinteractive.com/community/development_hub). We'll guide you through any issues you're having getting off the ground with your Rails app.

#### Or just

Tweet us [@reinteractive](http://www.twitter.com/reinteractive). We'd love to hear feedback on this
series, do you love it? Want us to do more? Let us know!

Commit message:

New flow due to new guide being inserted

source/guides/installfest/testing_the_blog.md, after:

---
github_url: https://github.com/reinteractive-open/installfest_guides/tree/master/source/guides/installfest/testing_the_blog.md
---

# Testing the Blog with RSpec
In the [previous guide](/guides/installfest/adding_authentication) you added authentication to your blog application. If you haven't run through that post then you should do so now before starting this one. If you feel confident with Rails but want to learn more about testing you can find some instructions on getting the code set up properly below.

## Introduction to Automated Testing
One of the biggest advantages of Rails is the community focus on testing. The Ruby and Rails communities have put a great deal of effort into building first-class tools and methods for making sure our apps are as correct as possible. With tools like RSpec and Capybara, Ruby and Rails lead the way in developing easy to use and innovative tools to support widely embraced methods like Test Driven Development (TDD), Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and Continuous Integration (CI).

Let's dive into testing now.

### Setup
Add the gem `rspec-rails` to the development and test group in your `Gemfile` so it looks like this:
(Windows users, if you added it previously, don't forget to keep the coffee-script-source gem in the list)


```ruby
# Gemfile
source 'https://rubygems.org'

git_source(:github) do |repo_name|
  repo_name = "#{repo_name}/#{repo_name}" unless repo_name.include?("/")
  "https://github.com/#{repo_name}.git"
end

# Bundle edge Rails instead: gem 'rails', github: 'rails/rails'
gem 'rails', '~> 5.1.0'
# Use sqlite3 as the database for Active Record
gem 'sqlite3', group: [:development, :test]
gem 'pg', group: :production
# Use Puma as the app server
gem 'puma', '~> 3.7'
# Use SCSS for stylesheets
gem 'sass-rails', '~> 5.0'
# Use Uglifier as compressor for JavaScript assets
gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.3.0'
# See https://github.com/rails/execjs#readme for more supported runtimes
# gem 'therubyracer', platforms: :ruby

# Use CoffeeScript for .coffee assets and views
gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 4.2'
# Turbolinks makes navigating your web application faster. Read more: https://github.com/turbolinks/turbolinks
gem 'turbolinks', '~> 5'
# Build JSON APIs with ease. Read more: https://github.com/rails/jbuilder
gem 'jbuilder', '~> 2.5'
# Use Redis adapter to run Action Cable in production
# gem 'redis', '~> 3.0'
# Use ActiveModel has_secure_password
# gem 'bcrypt', '~> 3.1.7'

gem 'record_tag_helper', '~> 1.0'

# Use Capistrano for deployment
# gem 'capistrano-rails', group: :development

group :development, :test do
  # Call 'byebug' anywhere in the code to stop execution and get a debugger console
  gem 'byebug', platforms: [:mri, :mingw, :x64_mingw]
  gem 'rspec-rails'
end

group :development do
  # Access an IRB console on exception pages or by using <%= console %> anywhere in the code.
  gem 'web-console', '>= 3.3.0'
  gem 'listen', '>= 3.0.5', '< 3.2'
  # Spring speeds up development by keeping your application running in the background. Read more: https://github.com/rails/spring
  gem 'spring'
  gem 'spring-watcher-listen', '~> 2.0.0'
end

# Windows does not include zoneinfo files, so bundle the tzinfo-data gem
gem 'tzinfo-data', platforms: [:mingw, :mswin, :x64_mingw, :jruby]
```

Save the file and run `bundle install --without=production`

This will add Rspec and RSpec Rails to our Rails application. RSpec is a commonly used TDD (and BDD) testing tool which provides a special testing language (powered by Ruby) for testing existing code and for informing developers about the structure and functionality of yet to be written code!

To complete the installation run:

`rails generate rspec:install`

`rails generate rspec:model post`

`rails g rspec:model comment`

`rails g` is the short version of this command, and can be used anytime you would use `rails generate`

Normally if you generate a Rails entity like a controller or model then this will automatically create a spec for you, but since we've already got a bunch of code that isn't tested we have to manually generate a spec to test our comment model.

We can now run the specs we've generated. Run `rails spec`. Alternatively use the `rspec` command. You can run individual specs as follows:

`rspec spec/models/post_spec.rb`

Or all the model specs with: `rspec spec/models`. With this last example you're providing a directory for `rspec` to run, it simply runs every spec it can find in that folder and all sub-folders.

### Testing the Post

Our Post model seems fairly empty but there is already some business logic in there that we can test. Rails validations are considered business logic and are easy to test. Open `spec/models/post_spec.rb` and update it so that it looks like:

```ruby
# spec/models/post_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

RSpec.describe Post, type: :model do
  it 'should validate presence of title' do
    post = Post.new
    post.valid?
    expect(post.errors.messages[:title]).to include "can't be blank"
  end
end
```

Once you've saved it, run `rspec spec/models/post_spec.rb`. The test should pass with `1 example, 0 failures`. But we're not done yet. Over the lifetime of our application we'll probably be adding lots of extra functionality and our spec is very flat. We should organise it a litte better and structure it in such a way which also allows us to reuse code:

```ruby
# spec/models/post_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

RSpec.describe Post, type: :model do
  describe 'validations' do
    subject(:post) { Post.new } # sets the subject of this describe block
    before { post.valid? }      # runs a precondition for the test/s

    [:title, :body].each do |attribute|
      it "should validate presence of #{attribute}" do
        expect(post.errors[attribute].size).to be >= 1
        expect(post.errors.messages[attribute]).to include "can't be blank"
      end
    end
  end
end
```

What we're doing here is splitting up the test into a "validations" section and then declaring the subject of the test. The before block will invoke some common code to be run for each test and then each test just checks that there is an error on the model, and that the error is the expected error.

RSpec is a tool that provides a nice Domain Specific Language (DSL) to write specs. The important documentation to read is for [expectations and matchers](http://rubydoc.info/gems/rspec-expectations/frames), but for the purposes of this project we'll be providing and explaining most of the test code for you.

Since we're writing a fully functional spec for code that is already written, we'll need to make sure our test actually works by intentionally "breaking" some of our code. Open `app/models/post.rb` and comment out Line 6 so your Post model looks like:

```ruby
# app/models/post.rb
class Post < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :comments, dependent: :destroy

  # validates :body, :title, presence: true
end
```

Once you've saved the file, you can rerun the spec with `rspec spec/models/post_spec.rb`. You should receive `2 examples, 2 failures` and the error messages will be printed in your terminal. Be careful to read the error messages closely. When you're done uncomment Line 6 in `app/models/post.rb` save the file and rerun the spec to ensure that everything is passing correctly.

We'll also need to write a unit test for our comment model. Open `spec/models/comment_spec.rb` and update it to ensure that a comment will always belong to a post, and the comment will always have a body. The code to do this looks like:

```ruby
# spec/models/comment_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

RSpec.describe Comment, type: :model do
  describe 'validations' do
    subject(:comment) { Comment.new }
    before { comment.valid? }

    it 'should validate presence of post' do
      expect(comment.errors[:post].size).to be >= 1
      expect(comment.errors.messages[:post]).to include "must exist"
    end

    it 'should validate presence of body' do
      expect(comment.errors[:body].size).to be >= 1
      expect(comment.errors.messages[:body]).to include "can't be blank"
    end
  end
end
```

When you run `rspec spec/models/comment_spec.rb` you'll receive:

```sh
Failures:

Failures:

  1) Comment validations should validate presence of body
     Failure/Error: expect(comment.errors[:body].size).to be >= 1
     
       expected: >= 1
            got:    0
     # ./spec/models/comment_spec.rb:10:in `block (3 levels) in <top (required)>'

Finished in 0.04008 seconds (files took 1.4 seconds to load)
2 examples, 1 failure
```

If you open `app/models/comment.rb` you'll notice that there aren't any validations on our comment model. If you add `validates :body, presence: true` into the class so that it looks like:

```ruby
# app/models/comment.rb
class Comment < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :post

  validates :body, presence: true
end
```

and re-run your spec you'll see the test pass and "go green".

Congratulations, you've just TDD'd your first piece of application logic! One of the amazing things about working with Rails there's a very quick feedback loop between writing a failing test, making it pass and then suddenly having a complete functional feature in your application.

At this stage we've completed a small block of work, tests are passing (which you can check by running the `spec` command) so we should commit our work with:
`git add .` and `git commit -m "Added Rspec and first model specs"`

We're not done with our tests though.

### Acceptance tests

Rails fully supports the concept of an acceptance test, which is a full-stack automated test that behaves exactly like someone opening a browser and clicking around your site. We'll be using [Capybara](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara) primarily with [RackTest](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara#racktest).

#### Setting up Capybara

As you probably expect by now we'll be adding a new gem to our `Gemfile`. Open the `Gemfile` and add the following lines to the bottom:

```ruby
group :test do
  gem 'capybara'
end
```

Then save the file and run `bundle install --without=production` to install the new gems. We only need Capybara for our tests, so we're creating a section specifically to ensure that Capybara is only loaded when we run our tests.

Next open `spec/rails_helper.rb` (which was created when you installed spec) and add the following lines.

```ruby
require 'capybara/rails'
require 'capybara/rspec'
```

(Don't forget to save your file.)

Your spec file should now look like this:

```ruby
# spec/rails_helper.rb
# This file is copied to spec/ when you run 'rails generate rspec:install'
ENV['RAILS_ENV'] ||= 'test'
require File.expand_path('../../config/environment', __FILE__)
# Prevent database truncation if the environment is production
abort("The Rails environment is running in production mode!") if Rails.env.production?
require 'spec_helper'
require 'rspec/rails'
# Add additional requires below this line. Rails is not loaded until this point!
require 'capybara/rails'
require 'capybara/rspec'

# Requires supporting ruby files with custom matchers and macros, etc, in
# spec/support/ and its subdirectories. Files matching `spec/**/*_spec.rb` are
# run as spec files by default. This means that files in spec/support that end
# in _spec.rb will both be required and run as specs, causing the specs to be
# run twice. It is recommended that you do not name files matching this glob to
# end with _spec.rb. You can configure this pattern with the --pattern
# option on the command line or in ~/.rspec, .rspec or `.rspec-local`.
#
# The following line is provided for convenience purposes. It has the downside
# of increasing the boot-up time by auto-requiring all files in the support
# directory. Alternatively, in the individual `*_spec.rb` files, manually
# require only the support files necessary.
#
# Dir[Rails.root.join('spec/support/**/*.rb')].each { |f| require f }

# Checks for pending migration and applies them before tests are run.
# If you are not using ActiveRecord, you can remove this line.
ActiveRecord::Migration.maintain_test_schema!

RSpec.configure do |config|
  # Remove this line if you're not using ActiveRecord or ActiveRecord fixtures
  config.fixture_path = "#{::Rails.root}/spec/fixtures"

  # If you're not using ActiveRecord, or you'd prefer not to run each of your
  # examples within a transaction, remove the following line or assign false
  # instead of true.
  config.use_transactional_fixtures = true

  # RSpec Rails can automatically mix in different behaviours to your tests
  # based on their file location, for example enabling you to call `get` and
  # `post` in specs under `spec/controllers`.
  #
  # You can disable this behaviour by removing the line below, and instead
  # explicitly tag your specs with their type, e.g.:
  #
  #     RSpec.describe UsersController, :type => :controller do
  #       # ...
  #     end
  #
  # The different available types are documented in the features, such as in
  # https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-rails/docs
  config.infer_spec_type_from_file_location!

  # Filter lines from Rails gems in backtraces.
  config.filter_rails_from_backtrace!
  # arbitrary gems may also be filtered via:
  # config.filter_gems_from_backtrace("gem name")
end
```

Next we'll create our first acceptance test.

#### The first acceptance test

Create a folder called `spec/features` then create a file `spec/features/reading_blog_spec.rb` with the following contents:

```ruby
# spec/features/reading_blog_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

feature 'Reading the Blog' do
  background do
    @post = Post.create(title: 'Awesome Blog Post', body: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet')
    Post.create(title: 'Another Awesome Post', body: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet')
  end

  scenario 'Reading the blog index' do
    visit root_path

    expect(page).to have_content 'Awesome Blog Post'
    expect(page).to have_content 'Another Awesome Post'
  end

  scenario 'Reading an individual blog' do
    visit root_path
    click_link 'Awesome Blog Post'

    expect(current_path).to eq post_path(@post)
  end
end
```

Save this file and run it with: `rspec spec/features`. You should get `2 examples, 0 failures`. But once again there's a problem. We've written a test which passes immediately, we should make it fail to check that the test is actually checking what we want it to check. We'll open `app/views/posts/_post.html.erb` and alter the Post titles as follows:

```erb
<h2><%= link_to_unless_current 'Blog Post', post %></h2>
<%= simple_format post.body %>
```

(Don't forget to save your file.)

Now when you rerun the spec (`rspec spec/features`) you'll receive two errors:

```sh
Failure/Error: expect(page).to have_content 'Awesome Blog Post'
  expected to find text "Awesome Blog Post"

Failure/Error: click_link 'Awesome Blog Post'
     Capybara::ElementNotFound:
       Unable to find link "Awesome Blog Post"
```

Undo your changes to `app/views/posts/_post.html.erb` so that it once again looks like:

```erb
<h2><%= link_to_unless_current post.title, post %></h2>
<%= simple_format post.body %>
```

Save your changes and rerun your spec to make sure everything is okay.

### Writing more Acceptance Tests

Acceptance tests are really powerful since they are a high level description of how your application should function. By writing acceptance tests it's entirely possible to build an entire user-facing feature without opening your web-browser! But more importantly, it gives you a high level of confidence that a feature will work, and won't inadvertantly break if you make changes elsewhere.

We're going to make more acceptance tests now.

Create a file: `spec/features/post_comments_spec.rb` with the contents:

```ruby
# spec/features/post_comments_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

feature 'Posting Comments' do
  background do
    @post = Post.create(title: 'Awesome Blog Post', body: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet')
  end

  # Note this scenario doesn't test the AJAX comment posting.
  scenario 'Posting a comment' do
    visit post_path(@post)

    comment = 'This post is just filler text. Ripped off!'

    fill_in 'comment_body', with: comment
    click_button 'Add comment'

    expect(page).to have_content comment
  end
end
```

Save that, then create a file: `spec/features/managing_posts_spec.rb` with the contents:

```ruby
# spec/features/managing_posts_spec.rb
require 'rails_helper'

feature 'Managing blog posts' do
  scenario 'Guests cannot create posts' do
    visit root_path
    click_link 'New Post'

    expect(page).to have_content 'Access denied'
  end

  scenario 'Posting a new blog' do
    visit root_path

    page.driver.browser.authorize 'admin', 'secret'
    click_link 'New Post'

    expect(page).to have_content 'New Post'

    fill_in 'Title', with: 'I love cheese'
    fill_in 'Body', with: "It's pretty amazing, don't you think?"

    click_button 'Create Post'
    expect(page).to have_content 'I love cheese'
  end

  context 'with an existing blog post' do
    background do
      @post = Post.create(title: 'Awesome Blog Post', body: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet')
    end

    scenario 'Editing an existing blog' do
      visit post_path(@post)

      page.driver.browser.authorize 'admin', 'secret'
      click_link 'Edit'

      fill_in 'Title', with: 'Not really Awesome Blog Post'
      click_button 'Update Post'

      expect(page).to have_content 'Not really Awesome Blog Post'
    end
  end
end
```

Save that file. Now let's run all of our acceptance/feature specs. Open your terminal and run: `rspec spec/features`. If everything has worked you'll get something like:

```sh
......

Finished in 0.26705 seconds
10 examples, 0 failures
```

### Cleaning up

We've now tested our application with some unit tests of our models, and using acceptance tests. We've increased our confidence in our existing code and we're ready to move on to adding extra features to our blog. Before we do that though we should run all our tests and commit our code.

To run all your tests either run `rake spec` or `rspec`. Rake is a utility command which provides a common interface for interacting with your application. the `spec` task simply runs `rspec` internally. Once your tests have finished running (and they all pass!) you should commit your code. Run:

```sh
git add .
git commit -m "Adding capybara and tests for existing functionality"
```

## Next Steps

Up next we're going to go more in depth with Rails and begin to add more features to the blogging engine. Head on over to [Part 4: Finishing a Basic Blog](/guides/installfest/finishing_a_basic_blog) to get started.

If you're interested in more training from reinteractive or just want to give us some feedback on this you can leave a comment below or:

#### Sign up to our Training mailing list.

Just put your email below and we'll let you know if we have anything more for you. We hate spam probably more than you do so you'll only be contacted by us and can unsubscribe at any time:

<form action="http://reinteractive.us4.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=b6281a8c8660a40e246de37d1&amp;id=e8c8222e0b" method="post" class="subscribe-form" name="mc-embedded-subscribe-form" target="_blank" novalidate="">
            <input type="email" value="" name="EMAIL" class="email" id="mce-EMAIL" placeholder="email address" required="">
            <input type="submit" value="Subscribe" name="subscribe" id="mc-embedded-subscribe" class="button">
</form>

#### Do Development Hub

Sign up for [DevelopmentHub](http://reinteractive.com/community/development_hub). We'll guide you through any issues you're having getting off the ground with your Rails app.

#### Or just

Tweet us [@reinteractive](http://www.twitter.com/reinteractive). We'd love to hear feedback on this
series, do you love it? Want us to do more? Let us know!
